Brian: Assistive technology,
that allowed me to be able
to navigate and use the Match app
that eventually led me to meeting my wife.
I have a lot to thank for,
for assistive technology.
[music plays]
Brian: So I use assistive technology
all day, every day.
And it can be, you know,
any kind of tool that
assists someone with a disability
to accomplish everyday tasks.
So those include things like
my mobility cane, my guide dog.
I wear a pair of hearing aids.
Alice: I use lots of things for daily life access.
My iPhone, my iPad, my braille display.
I'm using the iPad with Otter.ai,
which is internet-based speech-to-text,
and the text is modifiable.
I can enlarge it,
I can shift it,
I can rotate it left to right.
It's literally typing
in everything
that's said by you and by me.
Lydia: The way I access
things digitally is through
screen reading software and a braille display.
Rocky: Braille is paramount.
It's an entire code that was
designed for individuals who are blind.
And there are a number
of different devices out there.
I mean, there's all kinds
of different braille displays.
I got to see a bunch of them
last week at the expo.
Different companies came to display
their different wares essentially.
So there's different devices that can do
a number of spectacular things.
Man: The MyEye has the ability
to recognize things because once you store,
the things are on the device.
Brian: Most people think of it
as a really narrow thing,
you know, it’s a screen reader
or braille display,
but it can be almost anything
that assists someone with a disability.
Alice: For instance, this piece in the middle of
my chest, it controls the volume.
It can change the channels
on one of my processors on the left.
My iPhone carries the app
that coordinates all of the channels
and volume and modifications
on my right processor.
The stuff that attaches to
my cochlear implant can be immense.
Rocky: One of my favorite ones
it was a DeafBlind-style communicator
where I can type a message in braille and
you could read it in print
and type a message back to me
and I could read it in braille
and we could actually
correspond in that manner.
And a lot of DeafBlind people do that.
Adriana: She’s like, “My jaw is on the floor, wow.”
[laughter]
Brian: You know, there's a lot
of applications out there
now for people who are blind
and visually impaired.
There’s a lot of tools that allow you
to identify things in your environment.
There’s OCR scanners that can read print
and, you know, we do adapt
a lot of things around the house.
Our microwave and our laundry
machine had tactile buttons on it.
Rocky: I know there used to be a time
when even people who are blind had to use
live readers and actually hire people
to read things for them. And
with things, everything going
paperless and with more technology available,
the need for readers
is extraordinarily rare
in my case. I can do a lot of things
independently, and I think it's really
empowered, DeafBlind people
to really be able to function.
Lydia: A lot of people perceive us
as sometimes being incapable
of doing certain things
or just not realizing our
full potential and our abilities
And I think what people should understand
is that even though we do have
some sensory impairments, with the correct
access tools and accommodations,
we can perform all of the same tasks as
someone who does not have sight
or hearing impairments.
Woman: So it's like a CCTV?
Man: Yes. So step 1
every CCTV should make things bigger
and should make things brighter and
should make things change color.
Brian: There's a lot of work being done
around artificial intelligence
and around vision.
And so I think a lot of those tools
are going to become more and more useful.
And so I think the future is really
integrating a lot of
the technology that exists.
Rocky: There’s a lot of moving parts that go into this
technology and yet we're able
to evolve it to a point where
I can just do most things independently
and I am very, very appreciative of that.
Alice: It’s just thinking a little bit out of the box.
[music ends]